---
author: admin
comments: true
date: 2009-03-15 17:43:14+00:00
layout: post
slug: release-rswc-100
title: '[Release] RSWC 1.00'
wordpress_id: 112
categories:
- Development
tags:
- .NET
- C#
- Project
- RSWC
---

My new laptop is a work box and doesn't inherit the obsessive compulsiveness of File naming and sorting that my desktop hard disks have. I have, for this reason, dumped all wallpapers which are applicable to be used with my desktop (wallpapers with aspect ratio 16:9) into my "My Pictures" folder. Randomly, I have an urge to change the wallpaper and I really don't want to go select one. So I thought I should have something that would change my wallpaper to a random image. I tried finding something but most such applications were installables and would change the wallpapers after periodic time intervals, something i didn't want.

Thus was born the **Random Selection Wallpaper Changer** (RSWC). An extremely simplistic, single exe application that does what is required.

**Default Values:**



	
  * RSWC takes images (bmp, jpg, png) from the user's _My Pictures_ folder.

	
  * It sets this image as your desktop wallpaper using stretched mode.


**Pre-Requisite: **A pre-requisite is that you have .NET 2.0 installed on your machine.

**Future Plans: **The exe is 416kb, something I wish to reduce. I might rewrite the code in C++ to get rid of the .NET dependency (despite Microsoft claiming .NET is common enough to no longer be a  "requirement" and even reduce the file size. Also, I _might_ contemplate creating a light weight application to change wallpapers at regular time intervals as well. (People requesting for such things would certainly compel me. I'm not motivated to do this for personal usage :))

If someone requires it, I might work a way in to set the source folder and mode of setting the wallpaper and **still** keep it portable and single filed. I could write to registry but that isn't really portable in my opinion. Ideas/Suggestions/Feedback/Advanced Critique is always welcome ;)

**Known Limitation:** Setting png wallpapers sets the desktop to a plain coloured background (your [default background color](//{{ site.url }}/images/uploads/2009/03/change-background-color.jpg)) because Windows doesn't support png wallpapers. It converts pngs into jpgs and then applies them and I shall do the same in the next update.

**Download:** [Random Selection Wallpaper Changer (RSWC) v1.00](http://karunab.com/dls/Random%20Selection%20Wallpaper%20Changer%20v1.00.exe) (416 KB)
